ble dependency tracking for your code.
When your code imports packages contained in other modules, you manage those dependencies through your code's own module. That module is defined by a go.mod file that tracks the modules that provide those packages. That go.mod file stays with your code, including in your source code repository.

To enable dependency tracking for your code by creating a go.mod file, run the go mod init command, giving it the name of the module your code will be in. The name is the module's module path.

In actual development, the module path will typically be the repository location where your source code will be kept. For example, the module path might be github.com/mymodule. If you plan to publish your module for others to use, the module path must be a location from which Go tools can download your module. For more about naming a module with a module path, see Managing dependencies.

For the purposes of this tutorial, just use example/hello.
```
$ go mod init example/hello
go: creating new go.mod: module example/hello
```
In your text editor, create a file `hello.go` in which to write your code.

Paste the following code into your `hello.go` file and save the file.

```
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello, World!")
}
```

This is your Go code. In this code, you:

- Declare a main package (a package is a way to group functions, and it's made up of all the files in the same directory).
- Import the popular fmt package, which contains functions for formatting text, including printing to the console. This package is one of the standard library packages you got when you installed Go.
- Implement a main function to print a message to the console. A main function executes by default when you run the main package.
- Run your code to see the greeting.

```
	$ go run .
	Hello, World!
```	
The go run command is one of many go commands you'll use to get things done with Go. Use the following command to get a list of the others:
```
	$ go help
```

## Call code in an external package ¶

When you need your code to do something that might have been implemented by someone else, you can look for a package that has functions you can use in your code.

1. Make your printed message a little more interesting with a function from an external module.

- Visit pkg.go.dev and search for a "quote" package.
- Locate and click the rsc.io/quote package in search results (if you see rsc.io/quote/v3, ignore it for now).
- In the Documentation section, under Index, note the list of functions you can call from your code. You'll use the Go function.
- At the top of this page, note that package quote is included in the rsc.io/quote module.

You can use the pkg.go.dev site to find published modules whose packages have functions you can use in your own code. Packages are published in modules -- like rsc.io/quote -- where others can use them. Modules are improved with new versions over time, and you can upgrade your code to use the improved versions.

2. In your Go code, import the rsc.io/quote package and add a call to its Go function.
After adding the highlighted lines, your code should include the following:

```
package main

import "fmt"

import "rsc.io/quote"

func main() {
    fmt.Println(quote.Go())
}
```

3. Add new module requirements and sums.

Go will add the quote module as a requirement, as well as a go.sum file for use in authenticating the module. For more, see Authenticating modules in the Go Modules Reference.

```
	$ go mod tidy
	go: finding module for package rsc.io/quote
	go: found rsc.io/quote in rsc.io/quote v1.5.2
```	
4. Run your code to see the message generated by the function you're calling.
```
	$ go run .
	Don't communicate by sharing memory, share memory by communicating.
```
	Notice that your code calls the Go function, printing a clever message about communication.

When you ran `go mod tidy`, it located and downloaded the `rsc.io/quote` module that contains the package you imported. By default, it downloaded the latest version -- v1.5.2.



## II. Tutorial: Create a Go module

In this tutorial you'll create two modules. The first is a library which is intended to be imported by other libraries or applications. The second is a caller application which will use the first.

This tutorial's sequence includes seven brief topics that each illustrate a different part of the language.

1. Create a module -- Write a small module with functions you can call from another module.
2. Call your code from another module -- Import and use your new module.
3. Return and handle an error -- Add simple error handling.
4. Return a random greeting -- Handle data in slices (Go's dynamically-sized arrays).
5. Return greetings for multiple people -- Store key/value pairs in a map.
6. Add a test -- Use Go's built-in unit testing features to test your code.
7. Compile and install the application -- Compile and install your code locally.

### Start a module that others can use ¶

Start by creating a Go module. In a module, you collect one or more related packages for a discrete and useful set of functions. For example, you might create a module with packages that have functions for doing financial analysis so that others writing financial applications can use your work. For more about developing modules, see (Developing and publishing modules)[https://golang.org/doc/modules/developing].

Go code is grouped into packages, and packages are grouped into modules. Your module specifies dependencies needed to run your code, including the Go version and the set of other modules it requires.

As you add or improve functionality in your module, you publish new versions of the module. Developers writing code that calls functions in your module can import the module's updated packages and test with the new version before putting it into production use.


1. Create a greetings directory for your Go module source code.
For example, from your home directory use the following commands:
```
mkdir greetings
cd greetings
```
2. Start your module using the `go mod init` command.
Run the `go mod init` command, giving it your module path -- here, use example.com/greetings. If you publish a module, this must be a path from which your module can be downloaded by Go tools. That would be your code's repository.

For more on naming your module with a module path, see (Managing dependencies)[https://golang.org/doc/modules/managing-dependencies#naming_module].

```
$ go mod init example.com/greetings
go: creating new go.mod: module example.com/greetings
```
The `go mod init` command creates a go.mod file to track your code's dependencies. So far, the file includes only the name of your module and the Go version your code supports. But as you add dependencies, the go.mod file will list the versions your code depends on. This keeps builds reproducible and gives you direct control over which module versions to use.

3. In your text editor, create a file in which to write your code and call it greetings.go.
4. Paste the following code into your greetings.go file and save the file.
```
package greetings

import "fmt"

// Hello returns a greeting for the named person.
func Hello(name string) string {
	    // Return a greeting that embeds the name in a message.
	    message := fmt.Sprintf("Hi, %v. Welcome!", name)
	    return message
}
```

This is the first code for your module. It returns a greeting to any caller that asks for one. You'll write code that calls this function in the next step.

In this code, you:

- Declare a greetings package to collect related functions.
- Implement a Hello function to return the greeting.

This function takes a `name` parameter whose type is `string`. The function also returns a string. In Go, a function whose name starts with a capital letter can be called by a function not in the same package. This is known in Go as an `exported name`. For more about exported names, see Exported names in the Go tour.

()[https://golang.org/doc/tutorial/images/function-syntax.png]


- Declare a message variable to hold your greeting.
In Go, the `:=` operator is a shortcut for declaring and initializing a variable in one line (Go uses the value on the right to determine the variable's type). Taking the long way, you might have written this as:

```
var message string
message = fmt.Sprintf("Hi, %v. Welcome!", name)
```

- Use the fmt package's Sprintf function to create a greeting message. The first argument is a format string, and Sprintf substitutes the name parameter's value for the %v format verb. Inserting the value of the name parameter completes the greeting text.
- Return the formatted greeting text to the caller.

In the next step, you'll call this function from another module.


### Call your code from another module

In the previous section, you created a greetings module. In this section, you'll write code to make calls to the Hello function in the module you just wrote. You'll write code you can execute as an application, and which calls code in the greetings module.

1. Create a hello directory for your Go module source code. This is where you'll write your caller.
After you create this directory, you should have both a hello and a greetings directory at the same level in the hierarchy, like so:
```
<home>/
 |-- greetings/
 |-- hello/
```
  For example, if your command prompt is in the greetings directory, you could use the following commands:
```
  cd ..
  mkdir hello
  cd hello
```
2. Enable dependency tracking for the code you're about to write.
To enable dependency tracking for your code, run the go mod init command, giving it the name of the module your code will be in.

  For the purposes of this tutorial, use example.com/hello for the module path.
```
  $ go mod init example.com/hello
  go: creating new go.mod: module example.com/hello
```
3. In your text editor, in the hello directory, create a file in which to write your code and call it hello.go.
4. Write code to call the Hello function, then print the function's return value.
To do that, paste the following code into hello.go.

```
package main

  import (
      "fmt"

	      "example.com/greetings"
		  )

		  func main() {
		      // Get a greeting message and print it.
			      message := greetings.Hello("Gladys")
				      fmt.Println(message)
					  }
```

In this code, you:

- Declare a main package. In Go, code executed as an application must be in a main package.
- Import two packages: example.com/greetings and the fmt package. This gives your code access to functions in those packages. Importing example.com/greetings (the package contained in the module you created earlier) gives you access to the Hello function. You also import fmt, with functions for handling input and output text (such as printing text to the console).
- Get a greeting by calling the greetings package’s Hello function.

5. Edit the `example.com/hello` module to use your local example.com/greetings module.

For production use, you’d publish the example.com/greetings module from its repository (with a module path that reflected its published location), where Go tools could find it to download it. For now, because you haven't published the module yet, you need to adapt the example.com/hello module so it can find the example.com/greetings code on your local file system.

To do that, use the go mod edit command to edit the example.com/hello module to redirect Go tools from its module path (where the module isn't) to the local directory (where it is).

		1. From the command prompt in the hello directory, run the following command:
		```
			$ go mod edit -replace example.com/greetings=../greetings
		```
		The command specifies that example.com/greetings should be replaced with ../greetings for the purpose of locating the dependency. After you run the command, the go.mod file in the hello directory should include a replace directive:
		```
		module example.com/hello
        
		go 1.16

	    replace example.com/greetings => ../greetings
		```
		2. From the command prompt in the hello directory, run the go mod tidy command to synchronize the example.com/hello module's dependencies, adding those required by the code, but not yet tracked in the module.
		```
		$ go mod tidy
		go: found example.com/greetings in example.com/greetings v0.0.0-00010101000000-000000000000
		```
		After the command completes, the example.com/hello module's go.mod file should look like this:
		```
					  module example.com/hello

					  go 1.16

					  replace example.com/greetings => ../greetings

					  require example.com/greetings v0.0.0-00010101000000-000000000000
		```
		The command found the local code in the greetings directory, then added a require directive to specify that example.com/hello requires example.com/greetings. You created this dependency when you imported the greetings package in hello.go.

		The number following the module path is a pseudo-version number -- a generated number used in place of a semantic version number (which the module doesn't have yet).

		To reference a published module, a go.mod file would typically omit the replace directive and use a require directive with a tagged version number at the end.
		
		```
					  require example.com/greetings v1.1.0
		```
		For more on version numbers, see Module version numbering.

		6. At the command prompt in the hello directory, run your code to confirm that it works.
		```
		$ go run .
		Hi, Gladys. Welcome!
		```
		Congrats! You've written two functioning modules.

In the next topic, you'll add some error handling.







