
# init
#202111282251
#-202111282251


* Become an ***autodidact***.
* Code doesn't exist if it is not checked in Version Control System
* Floating point computations are _not_ precise.
* Don't stop learning.
* That the #1 thing you can do to increase the quality and maintainability of your code is REDUCE DUPLICATION.
* **Troubleshooting and Debugging Skills**. Every programmer should know how to use the debugger, and know how to use it **well**.
* Don't be clever; be clear.
* Use before reuse.
* Names matter.
* A function does 1 thing and does it well.
* Learn concepts before technologies/framework! You can Google the syntax later.
* Critical and logical thinking.
* Every programmer should know about testing. Unit Testing is a great way to codify your assumptions on how the code is to be used.
* Domain knowledge. The spec is never 100%; knowing the actual domain with which you are developing for will ALWAYS increase the quality of the product.
* Pointers. 🖖
* `Divide and Conquer` usually is the best way to solve any type of practical problem from scheduling to debugging.
* True skill is reflected in the ability to execute a simple design well, not in the ability to make a complicated design work at all. This skill comes from greater mastery of the fundamentals, not in mastery of the arcane.
* Data structures.
* How to use Google.
* 






















MUST READS: 
* <https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2003/10/08/the-absolute-minimum-every-software-developer-absolutely-positively-must-know-about-unicode-and-character-sets-no-excuses/>
* 