===

===


# JavaScript Fundamentals

JavaScript programs can be inserted almost anywhere into an HTML document using the `<script>` tag.

```javascript
<script>
alert("Hello, World! \n");

console.log("Hello, World! \n");
console.table("Hello, World!", "n");
console.warn("Hello, World! \n");
console.error("Hello, World! \n");

</script>
```

## Modern markup
`<script>` tag has a few attributes that are rarely used nowadays but can still be found in old code:

The `type` attribute: `<script type=…>`
The old HTML standard, HTML4, required a script to have a `type`. Usually it was `type="text/javascript"`. It’s not required anymore. Also, the modern HTML standard totally changed the meaning of this attribute. Now, it can be used for JavaScript modules.

The `language` attribute: `<script language=…>`
This attribute was meant to show the language of the script. This attribute no longer makes sense because JavaScript is the default language. There is no need to use it.


### External scripts

If we have a lot of JavaScript code, we can put it into a separate file.

Script files are attached to HTML with the `src` attribute:
```javascript
<script src="/path/to/script.js"> </script>
```
Here, `/path/to/script.js` is an absolute path to the script from the site root.
One can also provide a relative path from the current page. For instance, `src="script.js"`, just like `src="./script.js"`, would mean a file `"script.js"` in the current folder.


We can give a full URL as well. For instance:
```javascript
<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/lodash.js/4.17.11/lodash.js"> </script>
```

To attach several scripts, use multiple tags:
```javascript
<script src="/js/script1.js"> </script>
<script src="/js/script2.js"> </script>
…
```

> **Note:** As a rule, only the simplest scripts are put into HTML. More complex ones reside in separate files.
> The benefit of a separate file is that the browser will download it and store it in its [cache](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_cache).
> Other pages that reference the same script will take it from the cache instead of downloading it, so the file is actually downloaded only once.
> That reduces traffic and makes pages faster.


–-

# Code Structure

## [Statements](https://javascript.info/structure#statements)
Statements are syntax constructs and commands that perform actions.

## [Semicolons](https://javascript.info/structure#semicolon)
A semicolon may be omitted in most cases when a line break exists, but it's recommended to add semicolons.

```javascript
alert('Hello')   
alert('World')
```
Here, JavaScript interprets the line break as an “implicit” semicolon. This is called an [automatic semicolon insertion](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-automatic-semicolon-insertion).
**In most cases, a newline implies a semicolon. But “in most cases” does not mean “always”!**


## [Comments](https://javascript.info/structure#code-comments)

- **One-line comments start with two forward slash characters `//`.**
- **Multiline comments start with a forward slash and an asterisk `/*` and end with an asterisk and a forward slash `*/`.**

–-

# The modern mode, "use strict"
For a long time, JavaScript evolved without compatibility issues. New features were added to the language while old functionality didn’t change.

That had the benefit of never breaking existing code. But the downside was that any mistake or an imperfect decision made by JavaScript’s creators got stuck in the language forever.

This was the case until 2009 when ECMAScript 5 (ES5) appeared. It added new features to the language and modified some of the existing ones. To keep the old code working, most such modifications are off by default. You need to explicitly enable them with a special directive: `"use strict"`.

## [“use strict”](https://javascript.info/strict-mode#use-strict)

The directive looks like a string: `"use strict"` or `'use strict'`. When it is located at the top of a script, the whole script works the “modern” way.

For example:
```javascript
"use strict";
// this code works the modern way
...
```

##### Ensure that “use strict” is at the top. 
Please make sure that `"use strict"` is at the top of your scripts, otherwise strict mode may not be enabled.
> Strict mode isn’t enabled here:

```js
 alert("some code");
// "use strict" below is ignored--it must be at the top

"use strict";
// strict mode is not activated
```
> Only comments may appear above `"use strict"`.

##### There’s no way to cancel `use strict`
There is no directive like `"no use strict"` that reverts the engine to old behavior.
Once we enter strict mode, there’s no going back.

### [Browser console](https://javascript.info/strict-mode#browser-console)

When you use a [developer console](https://javascript.info/devtools) to run code, please note that it doesn’t `use strict` by default.
Sometimes, when `use strict` makes a difference, you’ll get incorrect results.

So, how to actually `use strict` in the console?
First, you can try to press Shift+Enter to input multiple lines, and put `use strict` on top, like this:

```javascript
'use strict'; <Shift+Enter for a newline>
// ...your code   
<Enter to run>
```
It works in most browsers, namely Firefox and Chrome.

If it doesn’t, e.g. in an old browser, there’s an ugly, but reliable way to ensure `use strict`. Put it inside this kind of wrapper:
```javascript
(function() {   
    'use strict';
    // ...your code here...   
})();
```

### [Should we “use strict”?](https://javascript.info/strict-mode#should-we-use-strict)

The question may sound obvious, but it’s not so.
One could recommend to start scripts with `"use strict"`

Modern JavaScript supports “classes” and “modules” – advanced language structures, that enable `use strict` automatically. So we don’t need to add the `"use strict"` directive, if we use them.

**So, for now `"use strict";` is a welcome guest at the top of your scripts. Later, when your code is all in classes and modules, you may omit it.**


–-

# Variables
- `let` – is a modern variable declaration.
- `var`–  is an old-school variable declaration. Normally we don’t use it at all, but we’ll cover subtle differences.
- `const`– is like `let`, but the value of the variable can’t be changed.


### [Variable naming](https://javascript.info/variables#variable-naming)

There are two limitations on variable names in JavaScript:

1.  The name must contain only letters, digits, or the symbols `$` and `_`.
2.  The first character must not be a digit.

* Case matters: Variables named `apple` and `APPLE` are two different variables.
* Non-Latin letters are allowed, but not recommended: It is possible to use any language, including cyrillic letters or even hieroglyphs, like this:
```js
let имя =   '...';
let 我 =   '...';
```
* Reserved names: There is a [list of reserved words](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#Keywords), which cannot be used as variable names because they are used by the language itself. For example: `let`, `class`, `return`, and `function` are reserved.

–-

# Data types

A value in JavaScript is always of a certain type.
There are `eight basic data types` in JavaScript.


## [Number](https://javascript.info/types#number)
* The `number` type represents both integer and floating point numbers.
* There are many operations for numbers, e.g. multiplication `*`, division `/`, addition `+`, subtraction `-`, and so on.
* Besides regular numbers, there are so-called “special numeric values” which also belong to this data type: `Infinity`, `-Infinity` and `NaN`.

    * `Infinity` represents the mathematical [Infinity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infinity) ∞. It is a special value that’s greater than any number.  We can get it as a result of division by zero:
 ```javascript
alert( 1 / 0 ); // Infinity
```
Or just reference it directly:
```javascript   
alert( Infinity ); // Infinity
```
    * `NaN` represents a computational error. It is a result of an incorrect or an undefined mathematical operation.
    
    
## [BigInt](https://javascript.info/types#bigint-type)

In JavaScript, the “number” type cannot represent integer values larger than `(2<sup>53</sup>-1)` (that’s `9007199254740991`), or less than `-(2<sup>53</sup>-1)` for negatives. It’s a technical limitation caused by their internal representation.

For most purposes that’s quite enough, but sometimes we need really big numbers, e.g. for cryptography or microsecond-precision timestamps.

`BigInt` type was recently added to the language to represent integers of arbitrary length.

A `BigInt` value is created by appending `n` to the end of an integer:

 `// the "n" at the end means it's a BigInt
const bigInt = 1234567890123456789012345678901234567890n;`
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    