# 202205100121 [SQL]

**Database is a collection of data stored in a format that can easily be accessed.**    
In order to manage the databases we use 'Database Management System' (DBMS).    

User provides the query for modifying/deleting data to the DBMS, and DBMS will manipulate the data in the database, and then DBMS will send the results back.    

				User -> query -> DBMS -> manipulates data -> DBMS send the result to DBMS.

2 major types of DBMS are there:    
- Relational (MySQL, Postgre, SQL Server, Oracle) : Stores data in tables which are linked to each other via. relationships.    
- Non-relational (MongoDB) : Stores data as objects.      

NoSQL systems don't understand SQL, they have their own query language.    
NoSQL DB's have  `collection/ objects`  in place of `tables` as in relational DBs.    



# SQL - Structured Query Language    
#sql    
- SQL lets us access and manipulate database.    
- SQL became a standard of the American National Standard Institute (ANSI) in 1986, and ISO in 1987.    


## Functionality    

- SQL can `execute queries` against a DB.    
- SQL can `retrieve data` from a DB.    
- SQL can `insert records` in a DB.    
- SQL can `update records` in a DB.    
- SQL can `delete records` in a DB.
- SQL can `create new DB`.
- SQL can `create new tables` in a DB.
- SQL can `create stored procedures` in a DB.
- SQL can `create views` in a DB.
- SQL can `set permissions on tables, procedures, and views`.

Although SQL is an ANSI/ISO standard, there are different versions of the SQL language.    
However to be compatible with the ANSI standards, they all atleast support the major commands (like SELECT, UPDATE, DELETE, INSERT, WHERE) in a similar manner.

## Using SQL in your website
To build a website that shows data from a database, we will need:

- An RDBMS database program (i.e., MS Access, SQL server, MySQL)
- Use a server-side scripting language (like Node, PHP or ASP)
- Use SQL to get the data you want
- Use HTML/ CSS to style the page


## RDBMS
#rdbms
RDBMS stands for `Relational Database Management System`.

RDBMS is the basis for SQL, and for all modern DB systems like MS SQL Server, IBM DB2, Oracle, MySQL, and Microsoft Access.

#sql_tables
The data in RDBMS is stored in DB objects called `tables`. A table is a collection of related data entries and it consists of columns and rows.

> Look at the `Customers` table:
```sql
SELECT * FROM Customers;
```

#sql_fields
Every table is broken up into smaller entities called `fields`. The fields in the Customers table consists of CustomerID, CustomerName, ContactName, Address, City, PostalCode and Country.
A `field` is a column in a table that is designed to maintain specific information about every record in the table.


#sql_records
A record (a.k.a row (horizontal entry)), is each individual entry that exists in a table. Ex. there was 91 records(rows) in the Customers table. 

#sql_columns
A column is a vertical entity in a table that contains all information associated with a specific field in a table!



# Syntax

> SQL Keywords are not case-sensitive! i.e., `select` is same as `SELECT`.

### Semicolons:
- Semicolons is the standard way to seperate each SQL statement in a DB system that allow more than one SQL statement to be executed in the same call to the server.


#sql_commands
## Important SQL Commands:

- `SELECT` - extracts data from the DB.
- `UPDATE` - updates data in a DB.
- `DELETE` - deleted data into a DB.
- `INSERT INTO` - inserts new data into a DB.
- `CREATE DATABASE` - creates a new DB.
- `ALTER DATABASE` - modifies a DB.
- `CREATE TABLE` - creates a new table.
- `ALTER TABLE` - modifies a table.
- `DROP TABLE` - deletes a table.
- `CREATE INDEX` - creates an index (search key).
- `DROP INDEX` - deletes an index

