#perl_docs

# Perl Docs
## Core Perl documentation and CPAN module documentation

* The most convenient way to access the documentation of core perl is to visit the perldoc website.
* It contains an HTML version of the documentation for Perl, the language, and for the modules that come with core Perl as released by the Perl 5 Porters.

* It does not contain documentation for CPAN modules. There is an overlap though, as there are some modules that are available from CPAN but that are also included in the standard Perl distribution. (These are often referred to as dual-lifed.)

* You can use the search box at the top right corner. For example you can type in split and you'll get the documentation of split.

* Unfortunately it does not know what to do with while, nor with `$_` or `@_`. In order to get explanation of those you'll have to flip through the documentation.

* The most important page might be [perlvar](https://perldoc.perl.org/perlvar), where you can find information about variables such as `$_` and `@_`.

* [perlsyn](https://perldoc.perl.org/perlsyn) explains the syntax of Perl including that of the while loop.


## perldoc on the command line

* The same documentation comes with the source code of Perl, but not every Linux distribution installs it by default. In some cases there is a separate package. For example in Debian and Ubuntu it is the perl-doc package. You need to install it using `sudo aptitude install perl-doc` before you can use `perldoc`.

* Once you have it installed, you can type `perldoc perl` on the command line and you will get some explanation and a list of the chapters in the Perl documentation. You can quit this using the `q` key, and then type the name of one of the chapters. For example: `perldoc perlsyn`.

* This works both on Linux and on Windows though the pager on Windows is really weak, so I cannot recommend it. On Linux it is the regular man reader so you should be familiar with it already.

## Documentation of CPAN modules

* Every module on CPAN comes with documentation and examples. The amount and quality of this documentation varies greatly among the authors, and even a single author can have very well documented and very under-documented modules.

* After you installed a module called Module::Name, you can access its documentation by typing `perldoc Module::Name`.

* There is a more convenient way though, that does not even require the module to be installed. There are several web interfaces to CPAN. The main ones are [Meta CPAN](https://metacpan.org/) and [search CPAN](https://metacpan.org/).

* They both are based on the same documentation, but they provide a slightly different experience.

## Keyword search on Perl Maven
* A recent addition to this site is the keyword search on the top menu bar. Slowly you will find explanation for more and more parts of perl. At one point part of the core perl documentation and the documentation of the most important CPAN modules will be also included.

* If you are missing something from there, just make a comment below, with the keywords you will looking for and you have a good chance to get your request fulfilled.


---
---

# POD - Plain Old Documentation

* Programmers usually dislike writing documentation. Part of the reason is that programs are plain text files, but in many cases developers are required to write documentation in some word processor.

* That requires learning the word processor and investing a lot of energy in trying to make the document "look good" instead of "having good content".

That's not the case with Perl. Normally you would write the documentation of your modules right in the source code and rely on external tool to format it to look good.

In this episode of the Perl tutorials we are going to see the POD - Plain Old Documentation which is the mark-up language used by perl developers.

As simple piece of perl code with POD looks like this:

examples/script.pl
```perl
#!/usr/bin/perl
use strict;
use warnings;
 
=pod
 
=head1 DESCRIPTION
 
This script can have 2 parameters. The name or address of a machine
and a command. It will execute the command on the given machine and
print the output to the screen.
 
=cut
 
print "Here comes the code ... \n";
```

If you save this as `script.pl` and run it using `perl script.pl`, perl will disregard anything between the `=pod` and the `=cut` lines. It will only execute the actual code.

On the other hand, if you type in `perldoc script.pl`, the perldoc command will disregard all the code. It will fetch the lines between `=pod` and `=cut`, format them according to certain rules, and display them on the screen.

These rules depend on your operating system, but they are exactly the same as you saw when we learned about the standard documentation of Perl.

The added value of using the embedded POD is that your code will never be supplied without documentation by accident, as it is inside the modules and the scripts. You can also reuse the tools and infrastructure the Open Source Perl community built for itself. Even for your in-house purposes.

# Too simple?
The assumption is that if you remove most of the obstacles from writing documentation then more people will write documentation. Instead of learning how to use a word processor to create nice looking documents, you just type in some text with a few extra symbols and you can get a reasonably looking document. (Check out the documents on Meta CPAN to see nicely formatted version of PODs.)

# The markup language

Detailed description of the POD markup language can be found by typing in perldoc perlpod but it is very simple.

There are a few tags such as `=head1` and `=head2` to mark "very important" and "somewhat less important" headers. There is `=over` to provide indentation and `=item` to allow the creation of bullet points, and there are a few more.

There is `=cut` to mark the end of a POD section and `=pod` to start one. Though this starting one isn't strictly required.

Any string that starts with an equal sign `=` as the first character in a row will be interpreted as a POD markup, and will start a POD section closed by `=cut`

POD even allows the embedding of hyper-links using the L<some-link> notation.

Text between the markup parts will be shown as paragraphs of plain text.

If the text does not start on the first character of the row, it will be taken verbatim, meaning they will look exactly as you typed them: long lines will stay long lines and short lines will remain short. This is used for code examples.

An important thing to remember is that POD requires empty rows around the tags. So

```perl
=head1 Title
=head2 Subtitle
Some Text
=cut
```

won't do what you are expecting.

# The look
As POD is a mark-up language it does not by itself define how things will be displayed. Using an `=head1` indicates something important, `=head2` means something less important.

The tool that is used to display the POD will usually use bigger characters to display the text of a head1 than that of a head2 which in turn will be displayed using bigger fonts than the regular text. The control is in the hands of the display tool.

The `perldoc` command that comes with perl displays the POD as a man-page. It is quite useful on Linux. Not so good on Windows.

The `Pod::Html` module provides another command line tool called `pod2html`. This can convert a POD to an HTML document you can view in a browser.

There are additional tools to generate pdf or mobi files from POD.

## Who is the audience?
After seeing the technique, let's see who is the audience?

Comments (the thing that start with a # ) are explanations for the maintenance programmer. The person who needs to add features or fix bugs.

Documentation written in POD is for the users. People who should not look at the source code. In case of an application those will be so called "end users". That's anyone.

In case of Perl modules, the users are other Perl programmers who need to build applications or other modules. They still should not need to look at your source code. They should be able to use your module just by reading the documentation via the `perldoc` command.

## Conclusion
Writing documentation and making it look nice is not that hard in Perl.




---

---

# Debugging Perl scripts

#perl_-d 
#perl_Data::Dumper
#perl_print
#perl_debugging
#perl_$VAR1
#perl_$VAR2


When I studied computer sciences in the university, we learned a lot on how to write programs, but as far as I remember no one told us about debugging. We heard about the nice world of creating new things, but no one told us that most of the time we'll have to spend trying to understand other people's code.

It turns out that while we mostly cherish writing the program, we spend a lot more time trying to understand what we (or others) wrote, and why does it misbehave, than the time we spent writing it in the first time.

# What is debugging?
Before running the program everything was in a known good state.

After running the program something is in an unexpected, and bad state.

The task is to find out at what point went something wrong and to correct it.

# What is programming and what is a bug?
Basically, programming is changing the world a bit by moving around data in variables.

In every step of the program we change some data in a variable in the program, or something in the "real world". (For example on the disk or on the screen.)

When you write a program you think through each step: what value should be moved to which variable.

A bug is a case when you thought you put value X in some variable while in reality value Y went in.

At one point, usually at the end of the program, you can see this as the program printed an incorrect value.

During the execution of the program it can manifest in the appearance of a warning or in abnormal termination of the program.

# How to debug?
The most straight forward way to debug a program is to run it, and at every step to check if all the variables hold the expected values. You can do that either using a debugger or you can embed print statements in the program and examine the output later.

Perl comes with a very powerful command-line debugger. While I recommend learning it, it can be a bit intimidating at first. I prepared a video where I show the basic commands of the built-in debugger of Perl.

IDEs, such as Komodo, Eclipse and Padre, the Perl IDE come with a graphical debugger. At some point I'll prepare a video for some of those as well.

# Print statements
Many people are using the age-old strategy of adding print statements to the code.

In a language where the compilation and building can take a lot of time print statements are considered a bad way to debug code. Not so in Perl, where even large application compile and start running within a few seconds.

When adding print statements one should take care of adding delimiters around the values. That will catch the case when there are leading or trailing spaces in the value that cause the problem. Those are hard to notice without a delimiter:

Scalar values can be printed like this:

examples/debugging_print.pl
```perl
print "<$file_name>\n";
```

Here the less than and greater than signs are there only to make it easier for the reader to see the exact content of the variable:

examples/debugging_print.txt
```txt
<path/to/file
>
```
If the above is printed you can quickly notice that there is a trailing newline at the end of the $file_name variable. Probably you forgot to call chomp.

# Complex data structures
We have not learned even scalars yet, but let me jump ahead here and show how you would print out the content of the more complex data structures. If you are reading this as part of the Perl tutorial then you probably want to skip to the next entry and come back later. This won't mean too much to you now.

Otherwise, keep reading.

For complex data structures (references, arrays and hashes) you can use the `Data::Dumper`

examples/data_dumper.pl
```perl
use Data::Dumper qw(Dumper);
 
print Dumper \@an_array;
print Dumper \%a_hash;
print Dumper $a_reference;
```

These will print something like this, which helps understand the content of the variables, but shows only a generic variable name such as `$VAR1` and `$VAR2`.

examples/data_dumper_out.pl

```perl
$VAR1 = [
       'a',
       'b',
       'c'
     ];
$VAR1 = {
       'a' => 1,
       'b' => 2
     };
$VAR1 = {
       'c' => 3,
       'd' => 4
     };
```

I'd recommend adding some more code and printing the name of the variable like this:

```perl
print '@an_array: ' . Dumper \@an_array;
```


to gain:

```perl
@an_array: $VAR1 = [
        'a',
        'b',
        'c'
      ];
```

or with Data::Dumper like this:

examples/data_dumper_dump_snippet.pl

```sql
print Data::Dumper->Dump([\@an_array, \%a_hash, $a_reference],
   [qw(an_array a_hash a_reference)]);
```

getting

examples/data_dumper_out2.pl
```perl
$an_array = [
            'a',
            'b',
            'c'
          ];
$a_hash = {
          'a' => 1,
          'b' => 2
        };
$a_reference = {
               'c' => 3,
               'd' => 4
             };
```

There are nicer ways to print data structures but at this point `Data::Dumper` is good enough for our needs and it is available in every perl installation. We'll discuss other methods later on.


--
--


# Common Warnings and Error messages in Perl

- Global symbol requires explicit package name
- Global symbol requires explicit package name explained in Variable declaration in Perl
- Use of uninitialized value
- Bareword not allowed while "strict subs" in use
- Name "main::x" used only once: possible typo at ...
- Unknown warnings category
- Can't use string (...) as a HASH ref while "strict refs" in use at ...
- Explained in Symbolic references in Perl
- Can't locate ... in @INC
- Scalar found where operator expected
- "my" variable masks earlier declaration in same scope
- Can't call method ... on unblessed reference
- Argument ... isn't numeric in numeric ...
- Can't locate object method "..." via package "1" (perhaps you forgot to load "1"?)
- Odd number of elements in hash assignment
- Possible attempt to separate words with commas
- Undefined subroutine ... called
- Useless use of hash element in void context
- Useless use of private variable in void context
- readline() on closed filehandle
- Possible precedence issue with control flow operator
- Scalar value ... better written as ...
- Have exceeded the maximum number of attempts (1000) to open temp file/dir
- substr outside of string at ...
- Have exceeded the maximum number of attempts (1000) to open temp file/dir
- Deep recursion on subroutine
- Use of implicit split to @_ is deprecated ...
- Variable "..." will not stay shared ...

- perldiag also has longer explanations for each one of the errors and warnings that you can skim, or you can access the specific explanation using diagnostics or splain.
























